FIXING VECNA.PDF — TEXT EXTRACTION (pdfplumber)
Total Pages: 16
============================================================


--- PAGE 1 ---
(cid:0)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:16)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:11)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:13)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:0)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:9)(cid:6)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:9)
(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:10)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:24)(cid:11)(cid:10)(cid:5)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:8)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:6)
(cid:26)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:27)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:28)(cid:2)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:8)(cid:4)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:29)(cid:23)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:19)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:30)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:31)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:13)
(cid:6)(cid:25)(cid:25)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:3) (cid:19)(cid:7)(cid:10)(cid:23)(cid:21)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:9)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:24)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:18)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:25)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3)!(cid:6)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:25)(cid:3) (cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)"(cid:10)(cid:7)(cid:19)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:21)
(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:26)(cid:10)(cid:7)#(cid:3)"(cid:6)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:13)(cid:24)(cid:6)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:31)(cid:6)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:9)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:27)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:13)
(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:16)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:13)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:9)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3) (cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:25)
(cid:16)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:7)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:8)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:18)(cid:6)(cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:16)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:11)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:21)
(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:8)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:25)(cid:3)$(cid:13)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:10)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:0)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:10)(cid:24)(cid:24)(cid:13)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:8)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:21)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:3)%(cid:13)(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:20)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:3) (cid:6)(cid:16)(cid:15)
(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:0)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:2)(cid:21)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:14)(cid:19)(cid:10)(cid:2)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)%(cid:13)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:6)(cid:14)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:16)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:13)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:7)(cid:7)(cid:8)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:2)(cid:9)(cid:3)(cid:8)(cid:2)
(cid:31)(cid:6)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:9)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:24)(cid:11)(cid:20)(cid:14)(cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:3)!(cid:10)(cid:12)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:11)(cid:6)(cid:25)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:21)(cid:2)&(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:4)(cid:24)(cid:11)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:8)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:17)(cid:10)(cid:11)#(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:22)

--- PAGE 2 ---
the Rod of Seven Parts, and it occured to be at that removed the entire secrets mechanic from the
point to have the final piece of the Rod have a shard of adventure as well.
the obelisk in the base of it. The very last bit in Eldritch Eye has Vecna
With the basics now in mind, I could begin fixing materializing within a ritual chamber and tells Zalryr
Vecna Eve of Ruin so that it would make sense and flow that he is impressed with the characters, that they are a
at my table. The following pages detail how I've fixed it new point of interest and that he will keep his eye on
for my players. them, then he bestows onto them one of two charms,
Charm of the Creeping Hand or Charm of the Eldritch
LEVELS 1 TO 4 Eye. Vecna then disappears. I liked this Nest of the
Eldritch Eye adventure, except by the time we got to Eve
Eve of Ruin wanted players to start off at level 10. This
of Ruin, there was never a mention of them meeting
is supposed to be a beyond epid adventure that also ties
Vecna, nor anything stated about these charms. I get
with with celebrating 50 years of the game. I wasn't a
why they didn't say anything in the core adventure, Nest
fan of starting them off at level 10, especially if I was
was a pre-order perk but after the book was released it
going to be running this for new players.Jumping in at
was another $5.00 to spend, so it would have likely
level 10 and there is just no skin in the game. I felt
caused a much larger issue and a nest (pun intended) of
having them start off at level 1 and move their way up
complaints from the community about having to
would be an excellent way to start off and also to help
purchase a pre-adventure in order to have all the needed
build that connection to the adventure.
material to run the core adventure. As it is, I did have
I run D&D for new players quite a bit. I've often run
the Nest adventure, so I made use of it and as such, I
them through Death House, an introductory adventure
incorporated the charms and them meeting Vecna into
found in Curse of Strahd. It's a well balanced adventure
the overall story.
that takes players from level 1 to level 3. The Mists
As the players adventure forth, they are free to spend
snatch them up from their home area and deposit them
the charms however they wish, but once they are spent,
into the famed Domain of Dread, in front of the Durst
they cannot be recharge, at least, not until the meet
family home, also referred to as the Death House. Why
Vecna again. While Eve of Ruin has them meeting
this is a perfect adventure, the players can literally be
Vecna only at the end, in my fix Vecna will pop up from
from any location, any setting. They could be from
time to time and recharge their charms, there is a larger
Forgotten Realms, Krynn, Kara-Tur, anywhere. The
reason for this, as it was a way for me to maintain a
mists is the element that will bring them together.
connection with the players to the overall story, to have
For the most part, Death House can be played as it is
a link directly to Vecna.
laid out. The heaviest edit I made to it was having the
By the time they end Nest of the Eldritch Eye they
Durst family be followers ofVecna. While I never flat
should be right at level 4. The 4th level adventure picks
out tell my players this, they may find a diary that
up right after Nest. Lord Neverember thanks them,
speaks of it, but too will notice that the cult spirits that
provides the just rewards, but also mentions that there
show up towards the end, some will have the symbol of
are possibly other Cult members in Neverwinter. He
Vecna on the backs of their hands, the hand with an eye
suggests that the players check out the graveyard first.
in it's center.
This is not something that I specifically mentioned in
Once they have completed Death House, the mists
the video, I instead left it a touch vague as to how the
will deposit them at the gates ofNeverwinter. Vecna:
players will progress, but in the 2nd section I'll explain
Nest of the Eldritch Eye was also a very well made
the exact adventure I did with my players where they
adventure, and was designed for 4 to 6 characters that
find a shard piece and advance to Sigil (which was also
were level 3. This was a perfect and natural segway into
not mentioned in the video).
the players getting familiar with Vecna. It is likely that
they know the name Vecna but not the who. This was
LEVELS 4 TO 7
another fix that I really wanted to address. Eve of Ruin
starts the characters off at level 10, and just puts them Eve of Ruin uses the term "shunt" to explain how to
right into the action. There was no buildup or meaning players move from one area to another, it was a cheap
behind it. They simply arrive one day in front of a way of saying that they were teleported without
powerful wizard and are tasked with saving the otherwise explaining exactly how. I didn't like that
multiverse. By having them start off at level 1 and go explanation but from it stemmed a super simple
through the Eldritch Eye adventure, they are now connection with the obelisks. In my fixed version,
organically in the mix. Plus a small tweak to Vecna's Alustriel has an obelisk (tho I admit, I've never
charms that they get help to sell their connection. explained how she got it so feel free to explore that) and
When the characters move through Eldritch Eye, they it has shard pieces missing.
encounter a cult ofVecna member named Zalryr. Zalryr The characters find a shard piece back when they are
is helping to sacrifice townsfolk in an attempt to steal level 4 and it brings them into Sigil. Alustriel is
their secrets and that supposedly beings Vecna back. somewhat surprised to see them but this ultimately
Yes, a secret that one can whisper to the wind is what kickstarts off the core of the adventure. She suspected
can bring Vecna back. I disliked this very much so I that the obelisk allowed for teleportation, but she was
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
unsure exactly how. It appears that by holding a piece of touch of mystery, but too the characters realize that
it that that piece would allow teleportation TO to their charms have been either replaced with the one
obelisk. She also mentions that she has a friend, they didn't have previously, or that what they had has
another powerful wizard named Mordenkainen been recharged.
researching the obelisk as well. During the course of the Their vision will grow dark again and when it comes
conversation she shows the characters around and back they find that they are standing in front of the large
explains everything about Sigil. This is, more or less, a palace as found in Chapter 5 of the Witchlight book,
filling in moment for players that are not familiar with Palace of Heart's Desire. For the most part this chapter
Sigil or the Lady of Pain, but the conversation also fills can be played out as it is presented, however, in the
in some gaps about who Vecna was and what he has orginal Witchlight adventure the bronze frog statue
done in the past. belonged to a different NPC, in this version it will be in
Alustriel goes on to explain that Vecna was, many Zybilna's palace.
years ago, attempting to destory the multiverse, and that Palace of Heart's Desire is designed for level 8
he had infultrated Sigil because of it's doors and it's characters, so I'll water it down a bit for 5th level
connection to other planes, that it would be an easy way characters, but it is an involved adventure so by the time
to move from one plane to another and take them down. they are finished with it they should be right around
The battle is detailed out in old Advanced Dungeons level 7. The ending of the original version of this has
and Dragons module, Die Vecna Die! While Alustriel is them freeing Zybilna and as a reward she grants them a
not in that module, for my fix, she was, as at the end of single casting of the Wish spell. In the fix, she will tell
it, the Lady of Pain rewards the players with a deed to a them that they will get the Wish spell at a later time but
house. Alustriel explains that the house they are also too offer up the contents of the frog's mouth. She
currently in is what the Lady of Pain granted to her for also tells them to tell Alustriel that she will be visting
helping to put an end to Vecna all those years ago. soon.
Alustriel also tells about the Maze, a prison of sorts In later parts of the adventure, we'll use Iggwilv's stat
where the Lady of Pain tossed Vecna, but that is an block from Wild Beyond the Witchlight. With the shard
element that we get in to a bit later. from the frog's mouth in hand the characters can now
Alustriel turns the attention back to the obelisk and return back to Sigil.
it's shards. She knows where one such piece is located,
inside the mouth of a bronze frog statue. Eve of Ruin LEVELS 8 TO 10
features Tasha, another powerful wizard, however, they
Alustriel is joined now with Mordenkainen as she
make it very convoluted. Tasha was the daughter of
continues to study the obelisk. In Eve of Ruin,
Baba Yaga, same person that created Baba Yaga's
Mordenkainen is not.. Mordenkainen. Instead it is the
Dancing Hut. Tasha would later become a touch .. evil
Vampire Kas that is pretending to be Mord. Since we've
and would be known in Greyhawk as Iggwilv. She
removed the Crown of Lies and Kas from this Fix, the
would travel the the abyss and learn secrets of demons
wizard that we see really is Mordenkainen.
and how to summon them and she would do some
Mordenkainen introduces himself but immediately
unsavory things. Eventually Iggwilv would see the errors
begins to speak about the obelisk, how it allows one to
of her ways and would attempt to atone for her actions
find the next part of it, but also speaks of another object
and become known as Zybilna. Zybilna is featured
that has similar properties. He says that he needs to
heavily in the adventure Wild Beyond the Witchlight.
research something and vanishes in a puff of smoke.
Historically in that book, because of her attempts as
Alustriel mentions that a contact of hers reached out
atonement, she would become an archfey but is
from Candlekeep, that a book there talks about an
someone that remained friends with both Alustriel and
obelisk with the powers of teleportation. She will task
Mordenkainen.
the characters to go there and get it for her. I'm not a
Alustriel tells the characters that Zybilna is in
fan of high level NPCs tossing out fetch quests because. .
possession of the frog statue. Alustriel also suspects
why wouldn't they simply go get the item in question
that a property of the obelisk would allow for one to
themselves? In this instance, I'm going to add a
touch it and concentrate on the location of a shard piece
throwback easter egg to something that was talked
and that it would take them within an area of where it
about in the 4th Edition Forgotten Realms Player's
could be located. They players touch the obelisk and
Guide, that she and her sister Laruel hid inside
their vision grows dark, slowly a red washed scene
Candlekeep in an attempt to destroy it's wards. .
forms and it is of a town with endless streets and alley
Candlekeep is warded so that not just anyone can
ways that stretch on forever. Those that are familiar
enter. A powerful lich named Larloch was attempting to
with past lore should recognize this as being the Maze,
absorb the wards so that he could become a god.
although I admit it would be out of game knowledge.
Alustriel and her sister went in to destroy those wards
Looming over the sky is a vision ofVecna, he has a bit
to prevent him from ascending. Alustriel will make a
of dialogue with the characters and teases that they are
comment here about not being allowed back in, even
travelling in his realm and that they are the final key.
though she helped to prevent Larloch from absorbing
This is left as a mystery, because all good stories need a
the wards, she did destroy some and in the process,
V:cna
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
several volumes of books were also destroyed. The A vision ofVecna appears and tells Zalryr that he is
monks would spend much time trying to repair the no longer needed, all he was was a means to get the
damage. Including this small line, "I am not exactly players into this specific location. Zalryr falls dead as
allowed back in the library", while it is in a much larger the image ofVecna fades. In one of Zalryr's hands is the
context, it explains why she is sending the characters on book that he stole, in the other is an obsidian shard.
the fetch quest and not going herself. She hands the Taking both the players can return to Sigil.
characters a key that will allow them to travel, via a door Alustriel will place the shard into the obelisk as
from her santuary and into the library. Of course, if she Mordenkainen examines the book. He will confirm that
contained the ability to destroy a ward, it stands to the obelisk, when made whole will allow teleportation to
reason she can bypass a ward now. She just won't risk a specific area, tho he does not know exactly where.
being physically seen there. She tells the characters to What he also learns and finds curious is that the obelisk
meet with a Sarah and that she will give them the book acts in a similar way to another artifact, the Rod of
to bring back. Seven Parts, that by holding a part of it that you will
Once in Candlekeep, they will find that the book has know where the next part is located.
been stolen. The area where the book was, instead is a Mordenkainen will detail out the Rod of Seven Parts,
burnt circle inset into the wall. Large enough to step it's history, and that it was once a Rod called the Rod of
into if there was something to step into, as it is, it's just Law but it was so powerful that it was broken into seven
a chared circle on the wall. Characters that have any pieces and scattered throughout the multiverse. The
unspent charms left will feel a sting from the charm. three wizards, Mordenkainen, Alustriel, and Zulbina all
Should they touch a chared part of the wall they will get guess that somehow the Rod and the Obelisk are
a vision of the sewer section from the adventure portion connected but they are now sure exactly how. They also
of Nest of the Eldritch Eye that they went through back surmise that Vecna is attempting to break free from the
at when they were level 3 when they were in Maze. They also figure that the Rod of Seven Parts
Neverwinter. could be used in stopping Vecna, but the problem is,
Should they travel to Neverwinter, and keep in mind, they don't have a clue as to where to find any of the
it's a long trip from Candlekeep to Neverwinter, they parts.
can get provisions and mounts from the keep's Court of In Eve of Ruin, they did know where to find the first
Air. Should they return to Sigil, they will find part, but again, I'm not a fan of powerful NPCs tasking
Mordenkainen, Alustriel, and Zybilna there. Alustriel PCs with fetch quests when those NPCs could just go
will ask of the book and upon finding that it was stolen get it themselves. By having the NPCs have no clue
and hearing of their vision of the sewers will deduce where the first part of the Rod is to begin with, this
that they should go there to Neverwinter to retrieve it. It solves that issue.
is suggested that Mordenkainen provide a teleport as a Also to, Alustriel, Zybilna, and Kas (as Mordenkainen)
fast means of transportation. cast a Wish spell to stop Vecna, only it explains that Kas
That part may be optional, you may desire instead to ruins the spell and it doesn't work and instead
have a cross country trek. This is what I ultimately did summons the players. Since we are used the obelisk as
for my table because it gave them a breather and an the catalyst to move the players into Sigil originally, we
opportunity to explore the wilderness and have some can't use the Wish spell in the same way, but I do want
random encounters and fights and gain some to make use of it. This is the Wish spell that Zybilna
experience. mentioned that she would cast when it was needed.
Once back at Neverwinter, Lord Neverember will In the hands of players, a Wish spell can go many
welcome them back but expresses at being nervous that different ways. While I don't like railroading, it will be
the cult activity may be back so he welcomes them to key that a wish to stop Vecna is what is wished for.
investigate once more. They will return to the original While they can, and should be free to wish for anything,
sewers as found in the Nest of the Eldritch Eye it would otherwise be a challenge to continue the
adventure only to discover that Zalryr has returned. adventure but I mainly wanted to tie in a connection
Should the characters have otherwise dispatched of him point with Quests from the Infinite Staircase here,
in the beginning, then this can just as easily be another something that I once speculated about in another
high ranking cult ofVecna member. Either way, he will video. Alustriel will heavily suggest that they wish for
scramble to the ritual chamber and sink into a portal stopping Vecna. As an alternative, should they use the
and disappear. wish for something else, touching the obelisk could
Following him and the players find themselves in a possibly kick start the next part.
cavern with walls that are black and smooth. The idea is Wishing for Vecna to be stopped would initially
to have this discription come off as if it's inside the appear to do nothing, but then the characters will have a
obelisk. One side of the walls is slightly purple and it is vision of stairs that stretch on into infinity, with some
here that Zalryr stands.Just beyond it the characters stairwells ending at closed doors. Their vision will have
can see a city with endless streets, again this is a them float past doors and see one that is open. They will
depiction of the Maze, but they don't know it yet. move towards it and just at the threshold they can see
inside. The inner area should depict a piece of artwork
Fixing V ~ c.'la

--- PAGE 5 ---
from the Web's Edge part of the Eve of Ruin adventure corpse of Brigetta, a nursemaid of the Durst family.
where we see the corpse of an adventurer leaning Shortly thereafter Strahd will appear. In this fix (and
against a massive door, only in this vision there are five this is a part that I did not include in the video) I had
living adventurers, one by one they are killed by two possible things happen. Either it plays out exactly
something the characters cannot see, however, as the as it does in Eve or after dealing with Strahd, there will
last one falls, it turns to face the characters and be a dialogue between them and Strahd in which HE
whisperes "Web's Edge". The open door that the explains that he wants Vecna returned to the Domain of
players saw this all through closes and a gust of wind Dread, and while he recognizes that they are seeking all
has them flaoting again, backwards to where they of the parts of the Rod, that another past associate of
inisially started this odd vision. They catch a glimps of a Vecna's may be able to help and that they should seek
large blue figure then all is dark. As mentioned, I out Kas in Torvag. I ultimately ditched this idea because
wanted this connection with the genie Nafas and the we had never established Kas previously in this
Infinite Staircase to be in here, I just though it would be adventure, but it could still be an interesting thing to
a fun nod, PLUS it's been revealed that Nafas does develope.
exactly this, he hears wishes and can take an element
from one plane and plop it into another in order to grant LEVEL 15
someone's wish. The implication is that the players are
The next part of the adventure has them going to Krynn,
the wish incarnate.
at this point they should be level 15 and seeking the fifth
Coming to in the sanctum, Alustriel will be standing
part of the Rod. Night of Blue Fire can play out as it
over the characters, Mordenkainen will look bemused
exists in Eve of Ruin's Chapter 6.
and question how a wish spell could possibly take down
a god. After the players explain what they say, everyone
LEVEL 16
deduces that the Wish spell may have worked after all,
as Mordenkainen is familiar with where Web's Edge is, Chapter 7 of Eve of Ruin, Tomb of Wayward Souls,
but too, they all suspect that that may be where the 1st while is a good enough fit, I wanted to have an element
part of the Rod of Seven Parts is. of deep thinking and major puzzle solving here. This
part of the adventure revolves around Acererak, the lich
LEVELS 11-13 that built the famed Tomb of Horrors.
I looked at Tomb of Annihilation but it took players
Mordenkainen will teleport them to the entrance of
from level 1 to level 11. Here, they are starting off at
Web's Edge and the remainder of Eve of Ruin's
level 16 so it would be a touch challenging to up the
chapters 2 to chapter 4 can play out page for page. The
difficultly from 11 to 16. Tomb of Horrors, found in
biggest thing to remember is to remove any elements of
Tales from the Yawning Portal is perfect for characters
Kas.
of level 13 but because it's mostly puzzles and traps, it
should be fairly easy to up it's difficulty to match level
LEVEL 14
16 characters.
Once the players are level 14, they will be tasked with One could easily use this chapter as is and change up
finding the fourth piece of the Rod of Seven Parts and the very ending of it to my fix, but for me, I really liked
Chapter 5 of Eve of Ruin has them going to Ravenloft's many of the aspects of the Tomb of Horror adventure so
Death House. Remember, back when they were level 1, it was an easy mesh to combine the storyline of
their entire adventure started off at Death House so this Wayward Souls into the location of Tomb of Horrors.
is a direct call back and connection point to that This is also where I wanted to add a major twist to
adventure. The idea in all of this fix it to establish those the overall adventure and include two more artifacts,
connections, to give the players a sense of belonging the Hand ofVecna and the Eye ofVecna, so a very
and that they are actively helping to save the multiverse. specific reason that we'll reveal a bit later.
There is a part in this version of Death House in While the 6th piece of the Rod of Seven Parts will still
which they will run across a statue of Strahd. A be included in this section, as mentioned, I also want
manifestation ofVecna will come forth from it in which two other things to be found .. the Hand and Eye of
Vecna again speaks to the players, taunting to see if they Vecna. The addition of these two items will be tricky
have figured out how they are his key and he touts that within itself, as if a player chooses to attune themselves
together they will reshape everything. They again will to either one, it can cause their alignment to shift to
feel the sting of the charms, and will find that the Neutral Evil. In the context of this adventure, the Eye of
charms have once again been recharged. He then Vecna will have it's base properties, giving one
merges back into the statue. truesight, the ability to use an action as if you were
To give a further connection, just like the 1st time wearing a ring of x-ray vision, Clairvoyance, Crown of
they encountered the Death House, the cult members Madness, Distinegrate, Dominate Monster, and Eyebite.
below, some will be Vecna followers, but others will The Hand ofVecna allows one's Strength to go up to
follow Strahd. In the Eve of Ruin version of Death 20, any attack made with the hand deals an extra 2d8
House, the fourth piece of the Rod is found within the
F'xiru Vecna
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
cold damage, and you can cast Finger of Death, Sleep, Seven Parts for himself. Kas isn't in our fixed version.
Slow, and Teleport. It too will shift one to Neutral Evil, The players will return to Sigil and where oringally it
and yeah, it'll cast the suggestion spell on you was Kas that took the Rod of Seven Parts, instead
demanding that you commit an evil act. Mordenkainen, similar to how Kas WAS going to obtain
Should the same person attune to both the hand and the rod, states that he can fortify it so that it cannot
the eye .. and keep in mind, by doing this, you've got to shatter again, but too wants to try one expierment with
chop off your own hand and shove Vecna's onto your it.
stump, and your own eye must be plucked out in order Undoubtably, one of the three wizards will see that
to replace it with Vecna's eye, but attuning to both will the players are in possession of the Hand and Eye of
grant to you, in addition to what we just previously Vecna, they will warn heavily against using them, eh,
mentioned, they will grant to you immunity to disease attuning to them. But.. players being players. . might just
and poision, you won't become exhausted by using the do it anyways. . As I've mentioned, I'm not a fan of
eye's x-ray vision, you'll experience premonitions of railroading, so I might have it in place that should they
danger, you can't be surprised, if you start a turn at 1 hit decide to hack a hand off and pluck an eye out that
point, you'll regain ldlO hit points, heh .. and if a Alustreil will cast a spell that will stave off any negative
creature you are fighting has a skeleton, you can or ill effects .. for a short amount of time .. The important
attempt to turn it's bones to jelly just by touching it, and part here is that they have the eye and specifically the
once every 30 days, you can cast the Wish spell. hand when they finally confront Vecna in his god form.
As for where the 6th part of the rod of seven parts will As Mornenkainen is handed the assembled Rod of
be found .. In the original version of Chapter 7, it's found Seven Parts, Zybilna points out that the bottom of the
in an area being guarded by Rerak, a false lich. In the staff is entwined around a blackened stone, in fact, that
Tomb of Horrors there is a chamber called the Crypt of stone looks remarkably like a shard of obsidian, the
Acererak the Demilich. It's a puzzle of sorts to get INTO same material as the obelisk.
that crypt, but once inside, you find a bench with a skull While Mordenkainen examines the Rod, Alustriel
sitting on it, it is explained that the skull is Acererak's begins to look even closer at the Obelisk, although she
and it really doesn't do anything other than kick up cannot find any more missing parts. Zybilna points out,
some sinister dust .. Instead, we are going to place the "The Tip." and points to the very top of the obelisk. It
the black throne from Eve of Ruin's 7th chapter, and appears that even though the obelisk looks complete,
sitting upon it, instead of Acererak or Rerak, it will be .. from the vantage point on the ground it.. looks ..
Vecna in his archlich form and he clearly has both eyes complete. . but examining it closer it is indeed, missing a
and both hands, albeit they are glowing a ghostly red .. shard at the top.
Vecna, in the Eve of Ruin book is depicted as being, for Alustriel stares at it in disbelief. "I've looked over
the most part, whole, excpet that his eye and hand glow every square inch of this thing, there is no way that I
red. This is EXACTLY how the characters will see him could have missed that!"
now. The players begin to feel that familiar sting again but
I wanted Vecna to appear for the players to encounter this time it is amplified, the three wizards visiably notice
at a certain point and this really was a logical location. It this and Mordenkainen and Zybilna help usher them to
won't be an easy encounter, but do keep in mind that an empty bedroom. Moments later Alustreil enters with
Vecna is using the characters as they are ultimately the clerics of Silverymoon to aid them. She then speaks,
key into opening a rift that will allow him to leave his "I know why I missed that piece at the top. There
prison and reenter the multiverse. appears to be a type of connection between you and the
Vecna is going to entertain the characters in a fight, obelisk. When you left, the obelisk appeared whole, I
and will "die" when he's been reduced to 1/2 his hit could not see where it was missing the shard piece.
points or more, again, as depicted in his archlich stat With you in there next to it, only then did it show that it
block. When he "dies" his bones and armor will cumble was missing."
to dust but remaining behind will be his eye, hand, and Mordenkainen then speaks, "That also explains why
the 6th piece of the Rod of Seven Parts. the shard pieces acted in a similar way to the rod parts!
Somehow the rod, the obelisk, and these adventurers
LEVEL 17 are connected."
Then Zybilna speaks, "And so. . what happens if we
Chapter B's, The Dragon Queen's Pride, can be run as
plug in the top piece?"
is, again adhearing to our fixed storyline, so if there is a
Alustriel states, "I'm more concerned with their
mention of Kas, remove that element.
connection to the obelisk and why they damn nearly
fainted just a moment ago!"
LEVELS 18 AND 19
Mordenkainen chimes in, "I've a feeling we all know
Chapter 9's The Betrayer Revealed as well as the what happens when we plug this last shard into the
remainder of the Eve of Ruin adventure sees a major obelisk, and I think we know that we must help these
change in my fix. In Eve of Ruin this is where Kas drops brave adventurerers, what helpless, powerless souls
his disguse as Mordenkainen and takes the Rod of would we three wizards be ifwe didn't offer our help?"

--- PAGE 7 ---
Mord continues, "Elminster and Dalamar charged me years ago and they have a personal beef with Vecna so
with certain responsibilites, and if those two old they are eager to help.
bastards want to stay at that house with the suit of Back in Advanced Dungeons and Dragons lore, Vecna
armor that spys on them, then it is up to us to help and killed the original Circle of Eight, Mordenkainen
stop Vecna." gathered up their remains and made clones of them.
That last little part is a small easter egg nod to the These are those clones and is a nod to the game's lore.
Dragon Magazine articles called the Wizards Three, While the battle can be as fierce and as grand as you
something that I've featured at length on the channel if need it to be, it is still a team of 11 casters plus the party
you want to watch that. going up against an army of thousands. BUT, do keep in
Mordenkainen takes the rod, motions for everyone to mind that there is an opposing Army looking to take
step outside onto the balcony and begins to perform a down Vecna as well, of course, it's made up of a bunch
spell. "This should help make the rod stable so that it of demons .. The takeaway element here is to give to the
does not break apart, but I wanted everyone out here to characters an epic battle, something they can sink their
soak in the remains of the day. Night is falling soon and teeth into before the final showdown, remember too,
I have a feeling it will be an Eve that we will not soon that they have the might of Mordenkainen, his Circle of
forget." Eight, Alustreil, and Zybilna to help them. When there is
It bothered me that the name of the adventure was a sizable break in the army's march, one or more of the
called The Eve of Ruin but there was never a reference players will feel the stinging sensation that has been
to .. any part of it taking place on any given evening. This happening throughout the adventure.
simple little bit of dialogue combined with the theater of The view within the rift shimmers, and the energy at
the mind of standing on a balcony outside at dusk fixes it's edges begins to solidify. It's as if the rift opening has
that. merged with the interior of Alustriel's Sanctuary.
From this point, they will take the Rod of Seven Parts Both Alustreil and Mordenkainen look visibly shaken.
and place it into the Obelisk's top, a rift opens, The landscape within the rift is of a sprawling city, the
shattering the obelisk, the Rod of Seven Parts falls to streets are empty, alley ways turn at impossible angles,
the ground. I really liked the artwork that Beedle and and everything appears to loop endlessly, it is the same
Grim did for their version of Dungeon Master's Screen city that the players have been seeing in their vision,
and it depicted Vecna rushing into the Alustriel's only this .. this looks more tangible, more real.
Sanctum. I wanted to include that image in my fix, so Mordenkainen speaks, "I was wondering when she
this is it. was going to appear."
With the rift open, spiders from everywhere begin Mordenkainen, of course, is referring to The Lady of
pouring into the Sanctum, we immediately see Pain. Alustriel gives a quick explanation to the players
Mordenkainen stumble and as he is falling he does a that the Lady of Pain, to protect Sigil, has created a
hand movement and disappears! Alustreil, Zybilna, and prison of sorts where she stores those who would
the party are left to deal with this rush of spiders and threaten the city on a grand scale, she calls this prison,
they notice a Spiderdragon making it's way towards the The Maze and it was always suspected that she trapped
opening. Vecna in such a maze many years ago when he
This will not be an easy battle, oh, and I do want to infiltrated Sigil. Evidently, that is now confirmed.
point out that while in the art we DO see Vecna leading Alustriel replies, "She can't help, she won't help, just
the charge, he is not at this point, this is simply a large as she couldn't all those years ago, she's bound. She'll
battle. I really like the idea presented in Chapter 10, protect Sigil, but she won't interfere with what we must
with two warring sides pitted against each other; those do next."
that are fighting with Vecna and those opposed to him Mordenkainen looks at everyone and says. . "Well
and I really didn't want to rob the players of such an then, Shall we go destroy the god of secrets?"
epic battle and it IS a major battle, demons vs demons, With that, Mordenkainen and the Circle of 8 begin to
and while the official adventure states this: march forth into the landscape before them .. Then
"The troops are so numerous and powerful on both Zybilna yells out for them to stop but it is too late, the
sides that even 19th level characters can't materially moment they cross the threshold, all 9 of them are
affect the war by joining in the fighting .." I WANT them reduced to a fine black crystaline dust.
to be able to have an impact and by having Zybilna, "No .. no .. ! No!" Alustriel cries out.. Zybilna speaks
Alustriel, and Mordenekainen join in, then an impact with a heavy tone because she's just figured something
could be had. . But. . we did just see Mordenkainen do out. . "Sigil.. it's known as The Cage. . the city of doors ..
something and vanish. but also .. the city of. .. secrets. .."
After several rounds of fighting, just as the And as if in reply, a raspy voice can be heard. . "and I..
Spiderdragon makes it to the opening, Mordenkainen am the god of secrets. .." and with that, Vecna himself
reappears but so too pop in eight more mages, as he has does kindav a float, slide, walk action coming from the
summoned forth this Circle of Eight. This is a group of rift and moves into the sanctuary itself.
powerful mages that he assembled many upon many Alustrile yells at the Lady of Pain, "You were
supposed to destroy him! remove him from existance!"
r XlPu Vecna 7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Zybilna says, "She did. . by imprisoning him with the I did put in a built in Easy Mode. The Rod of Seven
maze." Parts can shift one's alignment to a lawful alignment if
Vecna smiles, "and thanks to my loyal subjects, it is held. While Vecna is already of a Lawful Alignment,
helping me with my ritual, I am free. Now watch me Lawful Evil, I instead am taking a liberty for the Rod to
unmake .. everything." shift one's alignment to Lawful Good. I decided this, not
And with that the battle is on again, and now. . you're as a cop-out, but again, as an easy mode. Should a
fighting a god. player have attuned toV ecna's Hand, and again that is
done by lopping off one's own hand and shoving the
LEVEL20 Vecna Hand onto the stump, they need to hold the Rod
in that hand. Because the Hand ofVecna really does
This is where there is a major challenge and something
belong toV ecna this alignment shift will effect him and
I failed to include in the video. While the epic battle just
not the player. It should weaken him down to a point
prior took players from level 18 to 19, at the start of this
where he won't know what is going on and will allow
phase, they hit level 20 and there was nothing I had in
the players to do as they see fit.
place for them to rest to gain level 20 abilities. BUT
Either way, this battle will end with the characters
then it hit me, The Lady of Pain is there in the
being triumphant or with their total failure.
background. While she cannot putV ecna into a new
Maze at this point, she can place the players into one, at
VECNA WINS
least long enough for them to rest and level up. Once
they have done that she willingly lets them out. At one of my tables the players have already stated that
One of the major fixes and perhaps the entire reason I they are going to team up withV ecna and help him
started this fix to begin with was because Wizards of the remake the multiverse.Joy.
Coast told us, in all of their marketing material that In Eve of Ruin we are given a brief one line that states
we'd be facingV ecna, the God of Secrets, yet, what we that shouldV ecna win that the "multiverse becomes a
got instead ofVecna in his archlich form. They didn't terrible place indeed." And that's it. My fix had to
even upgrade his statblock from the Vecna Dossier that continue.
came out a couple of years back. This was a ripoff of ShouldV ecna win, I have two endings. One I'll be
me, and as mentioned, this was the specific reason that doing 100% with one table as they are older players and
I wanted to provide a fix. One of my Discord members would get a kick out this; Vecna will unmake everything,
created up a Vecna the Whispered One stat block that 5th edition won't exist, 4th edition will revert back to
was miles above what we got in Eve of Ruin, you can 3.5. 3.5 will disolve to 3rd, 3rd will become 2nd edition,
take a look at it here: Vecna the WhisRered One. and we will go all the way back to the pamphlet version
This new stat block is powerful, nasty, and should of the game, which will also include Eldritch Wizardry.
provide an actual challenge. In Eve of Ruin we are told Vecna will explain that that's what he's been trying to do
thatV ecna doesn't pay the characters any mind at all all along, revert the game back to it's basics, to it's
unless they directly challege him, that he is too busy beginning to where he was first spoken about. That he
trying to perform his ritual. In this fixed version, he is hasn't been the evil one all along, that he instead was
very much active. trying to rid the multiverse of the evil corporate
Big Bad Evil Guys must have a bit of dialgue, right? overlords. He hopes that the progenitors of this reset do
They are compelled to explain everything, what their not make the same mistakes. From this point, that game
overall goal has been all along. In this, Vecna is no table will begin playing the pamphlet version of
different. He will explain that the Obelisks were build by Dungeons and Dragons.
the Netherese, that he used the obelisks to wipe out all The more realistic ending would haveV ecna and the
knowledge of the Netherese, but in doing so learned of characters floating on a large rock in space as the
an even older race known as the Spellweavers that multiverse unravels around them. Planes would shift,
actually taught the Netherese how to build the obelisks some would collide, others would disappear, and even
and that they worshipped an even more ancient god some might emerge that had been long forgotten.V ecna
known asJ ergal, the Lord of the End of Everything. would truely become the master of the multiverse, buit
Vecna goes on to explain that he has been using the thenJergal would finally come forth. This is the
characters to help unlock the Maze by completing one cliffhanger I'd leave it at; Why?
such Obelisk and with it made hole, it allowed a rift to Why wouldV ecna want to meet withJergal? To kill
be opened, which is turn allows Vecna to escape, that him so thatV ecna could be the true Lord of the End of
the last part of the Rod of Seven Parts held the final Everything? Or would we find out thatJergal was
part of the obelisk. BUT, in order to have his full power, actually pullingV ecna's strings all along? Would we
his full body must be restored, and thankfully, the discover thatJergal held power a multifold of magnitude
characters also retrieved his hand and eye, all they need over whatV ecna had or would be find that by Vecna's
to do is hand them over. unmaking of the multiverse, that he unmade whatever
This is the end all battle of the Adventure. It won't be prisonJergal had been held in thus cementing that
easy and it won't be fair.V ecna will use everythin in his Vecna was indeed the most powerful? That would be
power to win. the final tease that I would leave the players with.

--- PAGE 9 ---
more to come. With Vecna gone, many of a cult
VECNALOSES
followers, as mentioned, will give up, possibly turn
Should the player otherwise dispatch ofVecna, in Eve themselves in. Some, however, will possibly seek out
of Ruin we are given three short paragraphs of what the characters as they will feel that in the sacrifice of
happens. Vecna is banished to Greyhawk, and they get a those characters that they themselves will be elevated to
celebration as heroes. a position of new powers and could become the new
This was an epic adventure that was supposed to be a
Vecna. .
celebration of 50 years of the game! It needs and epic
Other Cult ofVecna members will swear that white
beyond epic ending! My fix goes on to explain that they are no longer hearing from vecna. . that something
defeating Vecna, should the players manage to relieve is quitely whispering back to them. . that something
him of all of his hit points, the day is saved, however,
seems to have stepped into the void that Vecna left
several significant events AND consequences will
behind. . With Vecna gone, there is a great power
unfold, both immediately as well as long term. vacuum left to fill, and other powerful beings are likely
Remember that the official Eve of Ruin adventure going to attempt to step in, new threats will certainly
gives us a brief "you return to Sigil and get a party
pop up, for while Vecna has been defeated, his actions
thrown for you" ending should you win. I wanted
have forever altered the Multiverse.
something more epic, something grand. One single
paragraph ending just isn't going to cut it, we just
FINAL THOUGHTS
defeated the God of Secrets, we've completed a damn
long campaign! While my fix may not be perfect for every table, it's
These are the immediate things that will happen; going to work just fine for mine. I've mentioned some
Order is restored, any magical residuals from his Ritual very specific elements up to this point as to why and
begin to dissolve. Vecna had a far reach into the magics what my fixes attempt to accomplish. This ends part 1
of undead, being able to raise them, command them. of my fix. Part 2 is more of my "liner notes" and bullet
Followers ofVecna, cult members, will find that their points.
connection has been severed. Necromancers, will find As I've mentioned, I'm not a fan of railroading and
that their command over the undead isn't as strong, that while I encourage my players to go full on crazy and
many undead are finally able to rest in peace as it was explore and do what they want, I do have in mind an
Vecna that was bridging that gap between death and overall arc that I would like the players to experience.
To that end, this next part will have my basic notes and
necromancer.
Vecna's control over certain towns, and these would points that I ultimately wanted to touch upon. Keep in
be where his followers were strongest in numbers, think mind too, that I am fixing the storyline itself, certain
Neverwinter here, begin to celebrate their newfound elments, such as specific battles and exact map
freedom, while they may not know the heroes that saved locations, DMs will need to craft those elements to work
them, travel to those locations will like find that at their own tables.
conversation is thick about Vecna's fall and the relief One last thing, in my "liner notes" to follow, some of
that they now know. the level suggestions may not match up with either the
While the Cult ofVecna no longer has a connection video or the overview. As mentioned, these are notes
TO Vecna, he .. no longer "communicates" with them, and bullet points. There will be plenty of space for the
some members may seek to elevate themselves and characters to gain experience and level up between the
secure a powerful position while others may simply flee notes. There will also be a few things in the notes
or even turn themselves in. Regardless, the tattoos of (consider these bonuses) that never made it into the
Vecna on the backs of everyone's hands will slowly fade video or even in the overview as they were ultimately
over a 24 hour period. cut. I've left them in because I wanted to provide to you
everything that I came up with should you decide to use
True to the official adventure, celebrations will be had
it and make it your own.
in the character's honor for putting an end to Vecna, but
too a solem remembrance will be had over the fall of
Mordenkainen and his Circle of Eight. . but. . there is a
glimmer of hope here. . If the Hand of Vecna was
attuned and someone that held the Rod of Seven Parts. .
they might just find that the evil intent that the hand
once commanded. . now commands good and life ..
Where the hand once appeared as a shrivelled up
mumified hand, now it is meaty and full of life, who
knows .. it might even grant the possibility of bringing
someone back to life if they have not been departed for
too long .. The Eye ofVecna would have similar features
and functions ...
While things appear to have a happy ending, a good
story isn't grand unless there is a hint of something
F;xirgVecna
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
FIXING VECNA - NOTES AND POINTS
TART THE PLAYERS OFF AT LEVEL 1 AND HAVE THEM • Lord Neverember asks them to travel to Mount
advance up to level 20 during the course of Hotenow as there was a group of dwarves that were
the adventure. Focus on connection points to bring some rare black diamonds in two days ago
and investments. Connect different parts of in exchange for a !of of food and supplies. It is a
the adventure that take place later with parts friendly group and Lord N fears something has
that they will move through at the start. happened. He tasks the adventurers with finding
Biggest exaple is that we will start off in Curse them. Use material from AD&D's Dwarves Deep to
of Strahd's Death House and in Chapter 5 of Eve of flesh out an adventure. Madbeards would be fun to
Ruin we will revisit Death House. include. One of the black diamonds will look
different, it will be tossed out as worthless but once a
NOTES: player picks it up and examines it .. together with the
party they are teleported to Sigil.
• Remove the secrets mechanic, sure Vecna is the God
of Secrets but how this works is lame. Speaking a
LEVEL5
secret into the air and it's lost forever but then
somehow gives you abilities to take down a god? For godsakes, remove the word 'shunt' it sounds too
That's goofy. Remove it. much like ... Figure out logical ways for teleporting to
• Remove Kas moonlighting as Mordenkainen. I could work.
easily explain that the Dark Powers want Vecna and
• Alustriel has an obelisk in her santuary, it stands 12'
are willing to let Kas free in exchange, but what if we
tall and has missing pieces. those pieces allow one to
instead have the players meet Kas and he agrees to
teleport to it. by holding the shard or touching the
help them take down Vecna instead?
obelisk you will know the area that another piece is
• Remove Charm of Exile.
at. The last piece of the RoSP has a black obelisk
shard in the bottom of it, because of this the power
LEVEL 1
that lets one know where to find other parts of the
Use these locations/ adventures: Rod itself has leeched into the obelisk and that's why
it lets the players know where to go to find other
• Characters can be created and start in any setting,
shard pieces.
FR, Ebberron, Greyhawk, etc. because the mists will
• Alus can explain who Vecna is, help them to
collect them and take them to:
understand their vision. She can also explain the
• Death House -found in Curse ofStrahd
Lady of Pain, and how Vecna once tried to take over
• Durst family is actually followers ofVecna Some
Sigil. (move this to later once mord is present)
spirits will have Vecna tattoos on their hands
• next shard piece is in a frogs mouth, the one found in
• Mists will deposit them at the gates of Neverwinter
Wild Beyond the Witchlight. Play out the final
adventure Palace oft he Heart's Desire from
LEVELS 2, 3, AND 4
witchlight.
• use Nest of the Eldritch Eye, the preorder adventure • vecna appears to them when they teleport from sigil
from Eve of Ruin. to witchlight and recharges their charms and teases
• Starts players off at level 3 so water it down a small that they are a key to releasing him
amount so that they can run it at level 2. • in room with three versions of tasha explain
• Have the map for this area show back up in a later difference betweeen tasha, iggwilv, and zybilna
chapter, after they discover that a book explaining • after freeing '.ZYB, she doesn't give them the wish
the obelisk has been stolen (what happens if they kill spell now, instead it's done later -we want to tie in
Zalryr? -have it be another high ranking Vecna cult infinite staircase at that time.
member instead in that chapter). • obelisk shard is inside frog's mouth, a bag of holding
• Vecna shows up, gives players charms, either that been incorporated into a statue!
creeping hand or eldritch eye. Have these charms be • after this they are not deposited at the carnival, but
able to be rechaged throughout the adventure, this is instead return to sigil
Vecna's connection to him, kindav like Voldemort
and Harry, only the stinging is in their hands and not
their heads.
Fixing V ~ c.'la
0

--- PAGE 11 ---
LEVELS 6, 7, 8, 9 • Vecna is done with zalryr, just needed him as bait to
get players into this chamber. V kills Z on the spot,
They return to Sigil and find Alustriel and players will find book that explains the teleportation
Mordenkainen looking over the obelisk properties of the obelisk but also a shard to it as well,
they have to search zalryr to find these.
• mordenkainen introduces himself
• return to sigil
• remove everything about Mord being Kas in disguise,
this is the real mord. remove crown of lies, it's too
LEVEL 10 AND 11
stupid.
• if players don't share vision of vecna have mord ask Alustriel, Mordenkainen, and Zybilna are here. A takes
how alustriel came to have such a nice place in sigil, the shard and places it into the obelisk. Mord takes
then explain the vecna vision book and begins to read through it, confirms that the
• if players do share vision of vecna Alus can explain obeleisk has teleportation properties but also tells the
who vecna is, help them to understand their vision players about the Rod of Seven Parts and explains how
• mord recognizes something about how the obelisk they both, the obelisk and the rod, can influence where
works, he leaves to "research something". He is the next parts are. He finds that curious. Zybilna just
actually leaving to research the rod of seven parts watches.
because it has the same properties as the obelisk in
• remember give players down time let them explore
that concentrating on it will help you find another
• next morning Mord expresses that he feels that
part.
because the obelisk and rod are connected that
• There is a book that Alus needs, players can find it in
perhaps they need to find all the parts of the rod,
Candlekeep but she cannot go back because she
except no one knows where the begin looking.
cannot return. look up spellplague and weave -this is
• Zybilna grants the wish spell now. Players can wish
why she cannot go into that library
for anything (this could be bad -what if they wish for
• she has a key to enter just can't go in herself
gold? or an elephant sized parakeet like the last time
• book has been stolen
they had a wish spell? or even worse, what if they
• sarah siotta had the book (no relation to nintra just
wish for the deck of many things?). Highly encourage
same last name.
that they listed to Mordenkainen and Alustriel and
• players feel sting again from their charm, find a spot
Zyb when they say that they should wish to stop
on the wall in a back area and get a vision of the
Vecna.
sewers from when they were going to the nest of the
• tie in vision of Quests from the Infinite Staircase
eldritch eye adventure. They should deduce that they
here, major missed opportunity. In this vision they
need to return to the original vecna cult hideout in
will see the door from Web's Edge and instead of the
Neverwinter.
skeleton in front of it, it's an adventurerer, a large
• travel by horse or return to sigil and have
spider grows close to the adventurer and bits it! They
mordenkainen teleport them. going by horse gives
see the adventurer slowly turn towards them and
them a chance to earn a lot more experience via
whisper "Web's Edge!" vision will fade but they will
random enoucnters.
see the genie Nafas briefly.
• Neverember welcomes them back, doesn't want the
• Alus -maybe the wish spell didn't work
cult to return so encourages them to investigate.
• Mord -perhaps it did. I know where webs edge is, its
• Zalryr is in the sewers again. if they killed him
part of the underdark and its always been rumored
previously, make it another high ranking official. He
that that's where the first part of the rod is.
is reading the book that he stole from Candlekeep
Underdark is massive so never knew where to start
and when seeing the players he runs to the ritual
looking. Perhaps the wish spell is telling us exactly
room.
where to look.
• summons a portal and drops into it
• if players follow = inside obelisk . this is actually a
window between the outside world and the maze
that vecna is trapped in. once the obelisk has been
restored it will allow vecna to escape the maze. alude
to the adventure that mark and scott played in three
years ago where they found a broken obelisk and
started to put the pieces back together, remind them
out of game that their characters had a vision of a
red city. Sad that they all died from the mind flayer
later.
F'xiru Vecna
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
• might need to water this chaper down, it's heavy with
LEVELS 12 AND 13
fights and thy likely could advance two levels here.
• Run lambent Zenith and Ruined Colossus as is
• change lambet zenith to The Clarivoyant, their old LEVEL 16
ship from last year. Yes, their old ship that was
Tomb ofWayard Souls, created by Acererak who also
stolen is now the one that they will return to. grab
made Tomb of Annihilation and Tomb of Horrors. 6th
old notes to see what gear they had some will still be
part of the rod is here.
on board but most will be missing. Give T his cup of
everlasting tea back.
• replace everything with ToH, this is a thinking part
• they will likely accuse current stranded crew of being
of the adventure, lots of puzzels and traps.
the ones that stole clarivoyant, but they can produce
• players will find hand of vecna and eye of vecna here
a bill of sale, they didn't steal it but they also didn't
as well.
know it was stolen when they bought it.
• remove Rerak, instead it's vecna in archlich form, or
• optional -have all crew members dead. this solves
rather it's a manifestation of sorts, a projection that
what to do with them at the end of the adventure, you
they will fight. it can be the same stat block that eve
know they won't let them remain stranded.
of ruin provides because it's lame and not difficult.
• return to sigl and then go to eberron. careful T
• i don't like that rerak ends up aiding excavation
knowsa lot about it's lore.
team, another reason to remove him from the
• Mark is gonna want to attune to the docent. remind
adventure
him he'll have to rip an eye out.
• after fight they will find hand and eye and 6th shard
• they all will want to help free landro from the
piece.
mountain. he is fused into it, don't let them.
• returning to sigil alus, mord, and zyb will see they
adventure could end here as they are stubborn
have the hand and eye. warn against using them.
enough to stay here until they die of old age trying to
• can alus cast a spell to ward off the negative effects
excavate.
of the hand or eye?
LEVEL 14
LEVEL 17
We return to Death House, a favorite adventure of mine.
Dragon Queen's Pride. . I hate to say it but this is my
least favorite part of the adventure. Would tiamt really
• strong callback to 1st adventure of his campaign
be running a casino? gonna take a risk and run it as is,
because it too is Death House.
tho I have some concerns:
• include another vision of vecna, same sting as before,
also recharges charms.
• do we have mordenkainen in here somewhere? His
• after getting piece 4 of the rod and confronting
travelling tower IS in Avernus after all.
strahd, if the players explain they are looking to stop
• venatrix how do I stop the players from taking this
vecna, strahd seems amused. He can turn from foe
and keeping it?
to "enemy of my enemy is my friend" and openly tells
• how do I stop the players from taking the unicorn as
the players that he will grant them transportation to
their own "treasure" seeing as they've done it
Tovag where Kas the Betrayer dwells. That he
before?
(strahd) will instruct the mists to let Kas help them
• do we pause when they reach the belvedere and take
because Strahd would rather have vecna imprisoned
a trip to Horseshoe?
there instead of Kas. This is a direct nod to Vecna
• remember scott's purple worm joke, $100 says he'll
Lives!
tell it.
• Kas won't have his sword but knows where to find it,
he agrees but insists that the sword is the only thing
that can kill V.
• Lord Strahd will have sword of kas -what??? why?
LEVEL 15
Run Night of Blue Fire as is.
• 5th part of rod
• double amount of dragons
• floating boulders -tease yoda
• fake soth is in this not the real so Kas will make an
escape and leave the party to seek Soth out in order
to get his sword back. where do we have kas come
back in at?
Fixing V ~ c.'la
2

--- PAGE 13 ---
• explains that the players were his puppets that he
LEVEL 18, 19, AND 20
used them to complete the obelisk and complete the
Major change from Eve of Ruin, as Mordenkainen isn't
rod (which held the last piece of the obelisk) so that
Kas. there is no betrayer to be revealed. Rest of he could escape the Maze.
adventure will also be altered quite a bit. Do we have • what if a player rips out an eye and shoves V's in?
Kas return here? If so, how does he enter Sigil?
what is a player lops off their hand and slaps V's on?
what if it's the same player?
• Mordenkainen assembles the full rod
• offer than it can make vecna weaker if the hand of
• Zybilna sees that the obelisk is missing a piece at the
vecna holds the rod of seven parts that it will shift his
top
alignment and give the players a slight advantage
• 7th piece of the rod contains that last obelisk piece
• fight should not be fair nor easy. if players die they
• characters pass out due to another vecna vision
die.
• mordenkainen needs to mention Wizards Three
• have everyone step onto balcony that overlooks the
VECNA WINS
city, dusk is falling, eve. Even tho we can't really see
the sun, this is more symbolic than anything else. Vecna will take players with him so they can witness the
• rift opens once rod is placed into obelisk end and the ultimate remaking.
• match the artwork from DMs screen from Beedle
• he remakes the multiverse
and GRIM's website, include spiderdragon
• option 1 : undoes META style all of D&D and takes it
• mordenkainen falls but vanishes before he hits the
back to the old white book days. Mark wants to play
ground
super old school rules so this would be great to
• massive battle can be seen, monsters pour into the
explain why we are doing this.
santum -players can quell their thirst for blood and
• Option 2 : vecna and players are on a rock in space
battle here.
watching the multiverse unfold and remake itself.
• have kas return here? maybe he found a way to the
• he meetsJergal but we don't know why
battle and enters here to help? don't want to rob
• what the future for the characters? does V kill them?
players of fun victory before the real storm hits tho.
shove them off the rock and watch and laugh as they
• more spiderdragons
float in space forever?
• moar spiderdragons
• and another. spiderdragons are cool.
VECNALOSES
• make battle grand and fierce.
• mordenkainen returns and bring circle of eight with Big celebration but also there are hints of things to yet
him they help turn the tide of the epic battle, it can come:
go on for several rounds tho.
• rift shimmers and slides a bit and then stops and • players are rewarded with a big celebration and a
becomes solid. permanent home in Sigil
• lady of pain shows up and pits the characters into • other towns celebrate that vecna is gone tho they
their own maze. this is more of a place of protection may not know who saved them
really, outside of time and space, here they can heal • negative things also happen -while some cult of
up and level up. need to add something more tho, vecna members will give up and turn themselves in,
going from level 18 to 20 should be more than just some will attempt to elevate themselves and may
an epic battle. even attempt to become a lich.
• after levelling up LoP releases them • something is whispering back and has stepped into
• mord and Co8 rush the rift only to crumble to black the void that vecna was in, that entity might be even
dust. yes, we just killed Mordenkainen and 8 worse (tease cthulhu here)
powerful wizards.
VECNAFIGHT
Use Timmy's Vecna the Whisgered One stat block,
it's much better and more powerful than the archlich
version WotC provided plus they already fought the
archligh version earler.
• don't pull vecna's punches.
• give epic villian speech -netherese built obelisk
based on ancient spellweaver obelisk, they
worshipedJergal the lord of the end of everything,
vecna wants to meet this guy, we don't know why
(yet).
• vecna wants his hand and eye back
F;xirgVecna
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
FIXING VECNA - PLAYERS GONE WILD
HAT IF THE PLAYERS DECIDE THAT THEY HAVE HAD I was correct in my prediction when they went
enough of everything and want to join through Eberron, they attempted to free Landro from
[Vecna's cause and help him to remake the the mountain, not because they felt bad for him, but
multiverse? While Vecna is Lawful Evil, he instead because they wanted a big damn machine to
will certainly not turn the help away. He march around inside of. After Landro blew up, they
may not see the player's characters as insisted on trying to find another colossus as there were
followers or worshipers, but he will see many strewn all over the landscape. Finally they
them as a possible tool or means to meet his final decided to try to collect parts and build their own. They
objective of remaking the multiverse. figured that by having a massive robot on their side that
I was compelled to offer this scenario up because. .. at that could help them if they decided to fight Alustreil,
one of the sessions that I run, my players have chosen to Mordenkainen, Zybilna, or any other powerful being. It
do exactly this, join Vecna. They went through my initial is a great time to be a dungeon master ..
Death House at level 1, as previously detailed in this I finally decided to have an out of game chat with
document, just fine. Then as they went through the Nest them about their actions and possible ramifications.
of the Eldritch Eye .. they encountered Zalryr first, they While I'm fine with them taking the amount of player
held no punches and dispatched of him. Of course the agency that they are, I did explain to them that there
cultists heard the sounds of battle and rushed in, only to would likely be other NPCs that pop up at different
find their leader dead on the floor. One player did an points that they could go all murder hobo against if that
arcane check and recognized the tattoo. . then in haste was the path they really wanted to go down, but I also
drew a similar tattoo made of Zalryr's blood onto the warned them that this would not be an easy adventure
back of his hand .. and they proceeded to convince the to begin with, even less so should they side with Vecna.
cultists that Vecna had sent them to get rid of Zalryr, While we are still moving through the adventure,
that he wasn't performing and bringing enough people currently they are in the middle of the 2nd visit to Death
to Vecna's side. . House. Vecna will encounter them here and I'll change
The party then commanded each cultist to go forth up the dialogue between Strahd and the players, but
and spread the word that there were 6 new leaders to who knows how this will ultimately turn out.
direct them all, that they would be visiting each hideout
to "check up" on things. The Vecna cult members then I'm honestly rather surprised that they are still alive.
scattered and only after they had left did the "runic
circle hiss and flash with lurid light". Vecna coalesced To that end, I wrote down only four bullet points:
into his apparition of the skull and one glowing green
eye and spoke:
"Zalryr was such a disappointment, but I find you six
to be six points of interest. Yes, you have great potential!
We will meet again, but until then, I've got my eye on
you!" and then the apparition exlodes just as it does in
the NotEE adventure, passing streaks of shadows
through each character, bestowing upon them one of
the two charms.
I had already made most of my bullet point notes as
detailed out in the previous section, and while I knew
that I could keep most of them and leave the adventure
as is, the biggest challenge would come about when
they decided to reveal to the NPCs, mainly
Mordenkainen, Alustriel, and Zybilna what they were
really doing.
Should they reveal that they are working to help
Vecna when they first encounter Alustriel, well, at that
point they'd only be around level 5, she'd wipe the floor
with them and use their bones to make cookies. Even
waiting until the end, once they have reached level 20 Good luck to you should your players decide to team up
could be a challenge because, depending on how they with Vecna, it won't be easy for them, hell, the
reveal themselves, the Lady of Pain could just toss them adventure won't be easy regardless, but less so if they
into a Maze (like she does to give them a breather at the side with him.
end so they can heal up and level up) and never let them The remaining pages are blank for your own notes.
out.
Fixing V � c.'la

--- PAGE 15 ---
Vecna Was Here

--- PAGE 16 ---
Fixing Vecna
16
